# Web

Web for [Python Canarias](pythoncanarias.es) (happily made with Django).

## Python dependencies

### Virtual environment

This project recommends the use of virtual environments. The [requirements.txt](requirements.txt) contains the packages for _production_, while [requirements-dev.txt](requirements-dev.txt) includes the additional requirements for _development_.

Some advantages of using **virtual environment** are:

- Isolates the Python environment from the system.
- It is easy to duplicate the production environment.
- It is easy to duplicate the development environment.
- GitHub enables security checks on the requirements files.
- You can use [virtualenv-wrapper](https://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), which is ❤️.

#### Proceed

Note: The procedure assumes `python3` in your system executes a version of
**Python 3.6** or upper.

1. Install `virtualenv` and `virtualenv-wrapper`.
2. Clone the repository.
3. Change to the project directory. Create the virtual environment and install all
   the dependencies for the project with the next lines:

```console
    $ mkvirtualenv -a . -p $(which python3) pycanweb
    $ pip install requirements.txt
    $ pip install requirements-dev.txt  # For developers
```

This will install a virtual environment for the project, with Python 3, Django
and all the rest Python dependencies.

## Node.js dependencies

Minimal versions:

- `npm >= 5.6.0`
- `node >= 9.11.2`
- `gulp (cli) >= 2.0.1`
- `gulp (local version) >= 4.0.0`

There are some libraries (_css, js_) used on either the _frontend_ or the _development phase_. To install them, make:

```console
$ npm install
```

> ⚠️ This will create a bunch of folders and files under `node_modules`.

In order to use `gulp` correctly it is necessary to install:

```console
$ sudo npm install --global gulp-cli
```

## Developing

### EditorConfig

Please install the corresponding extension of [EditorConfig](https://editorconfig.org/) in your favorite editor. Thus your editor will pick the settings stored in `.editorconfig`.

This configuration avoids conflicts with a lot of settings, mainly with tabs widths.

### Customize your settings

Feel free to change some of the settings creating a file called `.env` on the root of the project.

### Database

We are using **PostgreSQL** as _database management system_. In order to configure the project correctly it is important to follow some indications:

1. Install [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/).
2. Create a _database_ and a _user/password_ with full access to that database.
3. Set the following keys in the `.env` file: `DATABASE_NAME`, `DATABASE_USER` and `DATABASE_PASSWORD`.

Afterwards you can apply migrations with:

```console
$ workon pycanweb
$ ./manage.py migrate
```

#### Admin user

In order to create a user for the admin site of Django you should:

```console
$ workon pycanweb
$ ./manage.py createsuperuser
```

#### Fixtures

Initially (and obviously) the database will be empty. Some `fixtures` will be needed to work with.

### Media

It is important to set property the key `MEDIA_ROOT` in the file `.env`

### Launching services

In order to develop, you have to launch the following services:

- _Django_ development server:

```console
    $ workon pycanweb
    $ ./manage.py runserver
```

- _Gulp_ build system for static assets:

```console
    $ gulp watch
```

After that, you'll be able to access the project on: http://127.0.0.1:8000

The changes made both in Python files or static files will be detected by the services and will reload them.

### API

You can check the documentation of the [public API](./docs/api.md).

### Adding a new section (app) on the project

Normally, when a new app (section) is needed in a Django project, it can be created as follows:

```console
$ ./manage.py startapp <app>
```

Based on the design of our project, some further steps must be taken in order to get the app well visualized:

1. Add `<app>` to the `APPS` constant on [gulp/config.js](gulp/config.js).
2. Create the file `<app>/static/<app>/css/main.scss` with, at least, the content: `@import "commons/static/commons/css/base";`
3. Create the base template file at `<app>/templates/<app>/base.html` which extends from [commons/templates/base.html](commons/templates/base.html) as `base.html` and links to the stylesheet `<app>/custom.min.css` (_this file is generated by gulp_)
4. In order to create the corresponding item on header menu, add the app entry at [commons/templates/header.html](commons/templates/header.html).
